Chapter 1: My Family
I was lucky enough to grow up in the town of Brraunqu (Brraunqu) on the banks of the Inn River. This town is so beautiful.

　　 And it is just the place where the two Germanic countries meet, which naturally gave me a chance to fight.

　　Austria-this Germanic tribe should have been put on the plate of the Great Germanic of the motherland long ago.

　　 This is not an economic relationship, but a relationship of blood.

　　 Even if the embrace of the two countries is economically disadvantageous, I can also say arbitrarily: if the Germans’ descendants
If we do not merge and rule for a day, we will have no peace for a day.

　　 Only when the Germanic people multiply and their population expands, will they stretch out their hands to plunder the territory.

　　 At that time, for the bread and butter, of course the public did not hesitate to replace the sword with a hoe to uncover the prelude to the war.

　　 For this, I was born in a small border town, and I have a sacred and great mission.

　　 "I am a German. But why do we split from other Germans? Are we not the same race?"
 

　　 When I was young, this serious problem was rolling in my head.

　　 I waved an iron fist: Why are the Germanic people inconsistently cast into the arms of the Bismark ‘Fmpire?
Where are you holding? I am jealous.

　　 I am not greedy in the life of an official. Basically, I am willing to suffocate at the desk of Lee Man's tablet over there.

　　Followed the mistake my father said that he failed in officialdom. This is my determination, letting the outside world give me the biggest temptation, I
The original intention is unchanged.

　　 I understand the meaning of history, I am a pure nationalist.

　　 When I was a teenager, I remember that in the category of the Austrian national struggle movement, there was a seed like me a long time ago.

　　 I used to win over the Southern Xinjiang Association (Sudmark) and the Federation of Students, presenting black, red, yellow, and three-color Citi; not singing
The Kaiserlied of Austria (Kaiserlied) and the utterance that Germany is superior to all (Deutch—latd alles)

　　'S song, even if you are threatened, you are not afraid.

　　 Our group of young people had been trained in politics before, although they only knew some Mandarin at that time, and didn’t know how to enlighten them.
"Nationality" responsibility.

　　 In short, when I was a teenager, I was no longer a cool-headed person, but a passionate "German nationalist" (
Deutschatioua.)

　　 My thoughts are developing rapidly. When I was fifteen years old, I was able to emulate the emperor’s "patriotism" and the people’s standpoint.
The analysis of "nationalism" is very clear.

　　 I have always liked the concept of nationalism. Unexpectedly, it is unexpected that there will be today's party organization!

　　Austria treats us Germanic people without loyalty and love. We know this. In daily life, we also
Every time I heard the strategy of the Habsburgerhous in Austria in the past.

　　 We know that the body has been infected with toxins, and at the same time, the poisonous flames filled the sky in the north and south of Austria.

　　 Look, where did the Germanic people go in the Austrian city of Vienna?

　　 The Austrian royal family dreams of Czechization, but Francis. Archduke Farrncis
Ferdinand)-This German enemy in Austria was eventually shot dead.

　　If heaven is unfair, how could it destroy this main role in the Czechoslovakization of Austria?

　　 The first shell of the future world war may be hidden in the muzzle of a German after the German-Austrian alliance.

　　 In short, the seeds of the Great War and the collapse of Germany have long been lurking in this alliance.

　　 I will explain this issue myself in the following article. Let me talk about myself. I thought it was necessary to keep the Germanic people
The safety of the clan must first destroy Austria.

　　 The reason is that the political distance between "patriotism" and "nationalism" is too far;
Existence is another obstacle to the Germanic people.

　　 For my understanding of these things is too clear, I hate Austria very much!

　　 But how much I love my family on the border of Germany and Austria!

　　 I grew up in a poor environment, and my mother’s original low birth was used by my mother for a serious illness.
Sustain life.

　　 I decided to support myself at this time, so I set up a simple suitcase and rushed to Vienna.

　　 I hope to fight hard with my own destiny, and after defeating it, I can become an outstanding figure in the world; but I don’t
Regard being an official as the highest goal of your life!

Chapter 2: Study hard in Vienna
　
In the city of Vienna, the disparity between the rich and the poor is a world of difference.

　　The population of the empire is 52 million, and the ethnic groups in it are complex. It is a hidden danger to the empire. We can do it in Beijing.
In the central district, Zang knows the lifeblood of Austrian country.

　　 Gongyan’s genius is like a magnet, absorbing wealth and intelligence from all over the country. And the Habsburg royal family enforced
Centralized policy. To consolidate the unity of various nationalities in the country. Therefore, all authority is completely concentrated in the capital.

　　 Vienna is not only the political and cultural center of the ancient Danube royal family, but also the economic center.

　　 In addition to most generals, officials, artists, professors, there are more workers and poor people, they and nobles
Wealthy businessmen live together in it.

　　The unemployed wandered around the palace facing the street (Rinsstrassr), thousands of them; while the Kaixuan Road (Via
The homeless people on tiumphalis should be gathered in the middle of the ditch. If you want to study social issues,
In any city in Germany, there is nothing more suitable than Vienna.

　　 But this kind of research cannot be done only on the surface, and outsiders can only say some indifferent empty talk, or
Pretending to sigh with emotion, it still shows that those who have been bypassed by the poisonous snake pan, cannot know the poisonous saliva of the poisonous snake.

　　 Those who cause lucky and self-sufficient success are ignorant of social needs; while ladies in costumes are compassionate but lack talents.
can.

　　 I don’t know which of these two causes is more shallow or deep! The latter’s crime lies in the lack of vigilance, thinking it is ungrateful for the people
Zuozheng.

　　 In fact, social undertakings are not easy to complete. His crux lies not in the implementation of small benefits, but in restoring the rights of the people.
Therefore, it should not be hoped to feel moral, this is something they can't understand.

　　 I think there are only two ways to improve this kind of thing: one is to have a deep feeling for social responsibility,
Establish a good principle as our path of development; first, we must make up our minds to get rid of all incurable warts.
 

　　 God is not important to maintain the existing things, but to cultivate new life so that the race can continue, human
The same is true for our lives. We should not pay too much attention to the current accumulated abuses. This is absolutely impossible. We should immediately determine
Perfect method to seek future development.

　　 When I was struggling to live in Vienna, I observed very clearly, knowing that social undertakings never focus on public welfare
Career, this kind of business is ridiculous and useless, and all the errors in the organization of economic and cultural life should be eliminated, because this
This kind of mistake is enough to make an individual fall into a degenerate situation.

　　 Because Austria ignores social legislation, he cannot rule out social abuses. This is obvious to all.

　　 The most shocking criticism at the time was for the workers’ economic suffering, or their vile behavior, or their spiritual life
The low? I really don't know.

　　People who live in hardship say that they are German or non-German as long as they can survive
Didn’t the middle class get furious when they heard this?

　　 They must reprimand loudly for this lack of "national self-esteem" and show what they hate.
 

　　Why do the middle class have better moods? How many people can really ask themselves?

　　 can understand that there are many great achievements in the cultural life and artistic life of the motherland nation, making them become
How many members of the blessed nation are there?

　　 How many people can understand that the motherland’s glory lies in the great achievements of the motherland in all aspects?

　　 At this moment, I fully understand what I didn't know before.

　　If you want to "nationalize the people," you must first create a sound social environment, and then educate individuals, this is the most important
The problem, because I want to know the great achievements of the motherland in culture, economy and politics, and I am lucky to be a nation.
Must start with education.

　　 A person must fight for what he loves, and what he loves must also be respected by him, but not what he understands
Things, then how can you respect him?

　　As soon as I became interested in social issues, I thoroughly studied them, so new and new worlds appeared in me.
Before his eyes.

　　 From 1990 to 1910, my living environment gradually improved and I didn’t need helpers to support my life.
, I rely on drawing and watercolor painting to maintain my independent life.

　　 All incidents that are inadequate and timid are unwelcome by the public.

　　 The people love the severe ruler more than the beggar. They are more absolute than they don’t know how to use
You should feel satisfied with your freedom, just like a woman’s temperament. For being touched by abstract theories, you should never be like admiration and envy.
The more the forces are the same.

　　 He would rather succumb to the strong than to dominate a weak, so the people are a threat to the spirit, not
Feel ashamed, just as they don’t feel that his freedom has been abused, and they feel ashamed to resist when he is forced to resist, they may not know
Dao Yu's grievances, but seeing the ruler's demeanor and resoluteness, the firmness of speech eventually made them obey to the end.

　　 If you rebel against the Social Democratic Party with a doctrine that has superb truth but is very cruel in its implementation, then
No matter how violent this struggle is, this doctrine will surely be victorious.

　　 In less than two years, I have understood the doctrine of the Social Democratic Party and its special purpose.

　　 The Social Democratic Party knows the value of strength from its experience, so it will attack those whom the party thinks is capable.
Spare no effort,-strength is really a rare thing.

　　 In other respects, he praised the weak of the enemy with great care. At first, he was very careful, and then boldly implemented it, let’s see
It depends on the ability of the weak.

　　 His fear of powerless will is not as great as his fear of ordinary capital and determined people.
 

　　 He was able to convince the people that only he had the secret of peace; at the same time, he did nothing to take advantage of the people’s
When he is paying attention, he puts pressure on him, or he boldly goes out and plunders, and gains an inch to expand his position.

　　 This is purely a strategy to exploit human weakness. If the opponent doesn’t understand the tactics to fight poison with poison, his strategy is a step
Step victorious.

　　 We have to warn the weak that this is the key to survival.

　　 In the workshops, shops, or mass meetings and demonstrations, if you don’t encounter the same forces, then
It is often successful.

　　 Workers must be forced by poverty to join the Social Democratic Party sooner or later, and the bourgeoisie also has the most reasonable requirements for mankind.
Often opposed, this is not only ignorance; it is also immoral, and it does not benefit them, and among the workers is
Extremely disciplined, but also had to leave the union and join politics.

　　 When I was 20 years old, for the trade unions that protect workers’ rights and improve labor’s life, and the class struggle
The trade unions, which are used by political parties, can also be distinguished clearly.

　　 The Social Democratic Party knows the extreme importance of the trade union movement. Therefore, it is used as a tool to obtain considerable advantages.
In turn, the bourgeoisie cannot see this, so it loses its political status.

　　 They think they underestimate the trade union movement. If he doesn’t develop step by step, he can be wiped out; or it can be made into
An unreasonable astray.

　　 It would be absurd to say that the motherland of the trade union movement is harmful as an enemy. In fact, it is exactly the same
opposite.

　　 If the purpose of a trade union is to improve the living conditions of a certain class in the tomb of the country and achieve results, its action must be
If it is not an enemy of the motherland, it is a legitimate national movement.

　　In this way, the trade union movement has contributed a lot to the formation of social thinking. Without it, universal nationalism
Education, there is no reason to think about it.

　　 Therefore, its greatest achievement is to get rid of the social toxicology, to cure the physical and psychological causes, and to increase it.
Add the general welfare of the nation.

　　 As for the nature of trade unions, this has become a retelling.

　　 If there are still reasons that cannot be understood among employers, or even misunderstandings of justice and reasoning, then we people
Part of the labor force can rise up against personal greed and unreasonableness, and use it to protect the welfare of the whole, not only for
Rights, but also for obligations.

　　Because maintaining the loyalty and belief among the people is the welfare of the nation. This is the same as maintaining the health of the people.
Of merit.

　　Resistence caused by treatment and inequality, if the lawful judicial authority fails to have a suitable solution,
The outcome of this kind of struggle has to be decided by the most powerful party.

　　 If a lot of labor and a certain employer with strong capital have resistance, if at the beginning, there will be
If it is not easy to win the hope, then the workers will have to unite and do nothing. The reason is very clear.

　　 In the last ten years, the trade union movement has been in the hands of the experts of the Social Democratic Party to protect the rights of human society.
The tool of the country has become a weapon for destroying the national economy.

　　 The group of people who use the trade union for the purpose does not take into account the welfare of the workers at all.

　　Because in politics, when one party is unscrupulously rampant, and the other party suffers humiliation and only knows to give in
At that time, that economic oppression often becomes a good strategy for plunder.

　　The trade union movement has long lost its original purpose at the beginning of this century.

　　Year after year, the trade unions also fell into the influence of Social Democratic politics, and later became the only ones in the class struggle.
One of the best weapons.

　　 In response to this phenomenon, the bourgeoisie not only did not take the offensive, but was oppressed and ravaged by it.

  At last. The unsuitable method was adopted, but it was too late to have an effect, and because of its weakness
Many, finally suffered the defeat of the people.

　　 Therefore, not only is everything still the same, but the injustice is even worse than before.

　　"The free trades nuion (free trades nuion) is just like a terrifying storm, which has actually fallen below the political level.
It threatens the security of society, the independence of the nation, the consolidation of the country, and the freedom of individuals. It can be said to be a kind of
The most terrible tool.

　　 is especially powerful, it will laugh at the idea of ​​democracy.

　　 humiliating freedom, ridiculing fraternity; saying: "If you don't follow me, I will break your head."

　　 Workers have a little understanding of "human friendship". After a long period of time, my insights have become broader and deeper.
Therefore, he couldn't come to change him.

　　 Since I have insight into the appearance of the Nashui Party, I want to know more about the gist of its theory.

　　 But the text published by the party authorities is of little help to me.

　　 When discussing economic issues, the dialectic of his stand is not quite correct; and when it comes to political progress, he said
It is even more unreasonable.

　　 Therefore, I hate those trivial and deceptive words to the extreme.

　　 Finally, I learned that the doctrine of this kind of thief is related to the characteristics of that certain race, which I didn’t know before.
Taoist.

　　 Understand the Tairen, and then understand the only key to the truth within the Nazi Party.

　　Understanding this nation is to expose all misconceptions about the purpose and meaning of the party, and then expose it again
Marxism abuses the wonderful words of socialism to deceive the world.

　　 When did the term "Jewish" begin to have a special meaning to me? This answer, if not
Impossible, but it is also difficult.

　　 I can no longer remember that when my father was alive, I would have heard the words at home.

　　叩 made his old man once said this term, I think it probably also refers to an ancient culture. My father's life
Slightly have the concept of a world citizen, but also have a strong national consciousness. This is because the impact on me is great.

　　 When I was in school, I would never have the impressions that would make my stay at home easier.

　　 When I was in the home science school, I once met a Cheng Tai child who was quickly valued by us;
This kind of experience, we know that he is a taciturn person, so we don’t trust him very much.

　　 When I was fourteen years old, I often heard the term "Jewish" in political discussions. At this time, I am a little bit disgusted with it
Yue: As for discussing religious differences, then I feel even more disturbed.

　　 There was no other observation on this issue at that time. There are very few Jews in Liuz, hundreds of years have passed
After that, they looked like Europeans, and I still regarded them as Germanic.

　　 I don’t know the mistake of this concept. According to what I have seen, the difference between Jews and other nations lies in
Its specific religion above.

　　Since they have been abused because of their religious comparison, I often despise and hurt the comments against them
Jealous.

　　 As for the hatred of the Jews, I still have classmates who feel that way.

　　I will arrive in Vienna afterwards.

　　Ojing’s architecture is very magnificent, which dazzled me.

　　 At this time, I’m being oppressed by difficulties, so I don’t know much about the character of the people in the metropolis, although in Wei
Among the two million people, there are about 200,000 Jews, but I don't even feel it.

　　 In the first few weeks, everything that my mind touched made me overwhelmed, and then my mind settled slightly. New to this
The world got a deeper observation, and the Jewish question arises because of it.

　　 My acquaintance with the Jews has nothing to do with it.

　　I still believe that Judaism is a religion, so I am based on the idea of ​​forgiveness between humans, and I don’t want to be religious.
They attacked.

　　 Therefore, I think that Vienna’s anti-Jewish newspapers are not in line with the argument—the civilization of a great nation.
 

　　 I think of certain events in the middle world again, and I feel very upset, and I don’t want to see them happen again today.

　　 However, most of these newspapers have no prestige,-I didn't know it at the time, so one-I think it was
Radical rhetoric rather than honest speech.

　　 The prestigious newspapers at the time mostly responded solemnly to such attacks, or even ignored them.
; This attitude is quite convincing, so my opinion is also firm because of it.

　　 I show my diligence in reading the so-called Le Monde, like the Neue Freie Presse, the Vienna Daily (
Wiener Tageblatt) and so on, but hated to be satisfied with his filthy attitude towards the court.

　　 There was an incident in the court, and it was a publication of the intoxicating words of joy and singing, this kind of stupid behavior
For the most wise to the Lord, it is tantamount to the behavior of "pheasant" mating.

　　 I deeply think this is a stain on the liberal democracy policy (LiberleDcmokratie).

　　 I live in Vienna, and Xiu still pays attention to all events in Germany, whether it’s political issues or culture
problem.

　　Comparing the prosperity of Germany with the decline of Austria, I can't help but be grateful for the Germans.

　　 Say goodbye to Jane’s diplomatic incident. Although it is not consoling, but the internal affairs can not help disappointing and unpleasant.

　　 I do not approve of the campaign against Wilhelm II. I not only recognize William as the emperor of Germany, but also respect him as
The founder of the German Navy.

　　 Therefore, I was very angry about the Congress for not allowing the emperor to speak, because in my opinion, Congress does not deserve to issue an injunction.
of.

　　The arrogant fallacy these bastards made in a meeting is the most useless compared to the emperors of the previous dynasties.
The fallacy of boring performance has occurred in hundreds of years.

　　In a country, any Yuchun has the right to criticize, and everyone has the qualifications to be a legislator in the parliament.
Now, the person in the throne is condemned by this most absurd institution. This really makes me angry.

　　 What makes me even more angry is the newspapers in Vienna, which used to be hypocritical and flattering to the court.
Come to express its remarks against the German Emperor, they actually showed an unconcealable enmity.

　　 This is what I have to admit. Among the anti-Jewish newspapers, there is a newspaper called the German Volkswagen (
Deutsches Volksblatt), the attitude on this topic is more appropriate.

　　 Those more powerful newspapers are also very unhappy about the ugliness of the French flattery.

　　 When a person sees the praise of their so-called "great civilized nation", one cannot but be ashamed to be a German
People.

　　 This sordid state of begging for pleasure from France has made me angrily abandon this world newspaper more than once.

　　 I have seen the People’s Daily. Although their opinions on this matter are somewhat narrow, they are actually purer.

　　 I did not approve of its harshness against the Jews, but when I was watching its debate, although it made me happen
Thinking deeply.

　　 In short, because of this, I slowly learned that the man who decided the fate of Vienna at that time believed that the host of its movement was Karlu
Dr. Karl Lueger (Dr.KarlLueger) and the Christian Socialist Party (Christian SocalistParty).

　　 When I arrived in Vienna, Karl. Both Dr. Rüger and the Christian Socialist Party are against the society.

　　 In my opinion, this man and his movement are reactionary.

　　 One day, when I was walking through the inner city, I suddenly came across a man wearing a Turk’s gown and black curly hair on both sides.
I wondered "Is this a Jew?" But the Jews in Linz are not in this category.

　　 I checked the appearance of this person, and then the question in my mind changed to: "Is this a Germanic?"
 

　　 Normally, I encounter this situation, and I often rely on books to clarify my doubts. For the first time, I used a few "Heller" to buy a few anti
Brochures for Jews.

　　 I can’t think of what is discussed in such books, but I think the readers have a little knowledge or equivalent for Jewish issues.
Solution.

　　The arguments in these pamphlets actually made me suspicious; because what they said was extremely shallow and thin, but not in a discipline.
Academic debate.

　　 This topic is so vast, but wanting to study it is also at a loss and boundless, I'm afraid it will be unfair,
So I was worried but didn't dare to be confident anymore. However, they are really not Germans who believe in other religions, but other people.
Family, I can no longer doubt it here.

　　 Since I started to study this issue and paid attention to the Jews, the dimension in my eyes was naturally different.

　　 So, I saw Jews everywhere. The more you see, the more obvious its place in others. And the inner city and more
The northern part of the Danube Canal is home to a different kind of Germanic people.

　　Although I still have doubts in my heart, my hesitation is also relieved by the attitude of some Jews
Up.

　　 At this time in Vienna, there was a big movement among the Jews with the purpose of promoting the national character of Judaism.
It is called Zionism.

　　 It seems that it is only a small group of Jews who applaud this move, and the majority of those who curse and oppose it; however,
Upon closer inspection, this phenomenon has turned into a theoretical atmosphere, which is purely designed for cheapness, and it is really a weird word.

　　The so-called liberal Jews, the reason they don’t recognize congregationalists is not because they are not Jews.
Too people only think that their doctrines are not practical, or that they are harmful to the Judaism held by liberals.

　　 However, their internal unity has not changed, so the congregationalists and liberal Jews
His appearance pretends to be discordant, which makes me very annoying.

　　Because of their hypocrisy and deceit, they are very at odds with the virtues and cleanliness they often boast of.

　　 When I know that Jewishism is active in all aspects of news, art, literature, and drama, in my mind
In China, Judaism suffered a huge setback.

　　 used Shitong to argue, it is useless. We just have to read their promotional materials and study their bad
The names of film and drama writers are enough.

　　 This is a kind of plague, it is a kind of spiritual plague, it is more poisonous to the people than the black death.
In the art, since there are such despicable works before the public, I have to study them carefully.
The name of the person.

　　The results of the research have made my attitude towards Jews worse. Although my emotions are always at odds with my attitude
, But my reason finally had to have its own judgment.

　　 So I started to use the same point of view and went to test the Le Monde, which I liked, and discovered the freedom of this newspaper.
In my opinion, this newspaper’s solemn reply to the attacker and its indifferent attitude towards the attacker
, Is a sly trick; he "the kind of grand drama critics often hold Jewish writers and put bad comments
They were all applied to Germany; especially the ridicule of Wilhelm II and the prestigious academic civilization of France are enough to show them
The strategy is consistent.

　　 In conclusion, they despise the Germans. Where can you say that he was unintentional?

　　 Because of this, I have a deep recognition that the main brain of the Social Democratic Party is Jews; therefore, Jews are despised by my newspaper
, And the problem of fighting in my chest on weekdays has now been resolved.

　　 Slowly I learned that the newspapers of the Social Democratic Party are mostly manipulated by Jews.

　　 I didn’t pay much attention to this point, because other newspapers are indeed the same, but it is very noticeable, that is
None of the newspapers related to mortals and Jews can be seen as having a true national concept, as my education and insights show.
Shown to me.

　　 I forcibly suppressed my disgust, trying to read the Marxist babble in the newspaper, but
It's my disgust, but the more blasphemous it gets, it gets worse.

　　 I have met with editors who speak babbles, but since the main writer, most of them are Jewish.

　　 I tried my best to search all the lists of Social Democrats, and came to study the author’s name—nothing else,
It was totally Jewish.

　　 If I look closely at the names of all the leaders, most of them are "Chosen People" (Chosen People). And not
Ask him if he is a member of Congress, or the clerk of our association, or the chairperson of various groups, or an instigator in the market, they
There is no difference in the appearance of a villainous appearance in appearance.

　　Austrlitz (Austrlitz) David (David), Adler (Adler) and Ellen Bogen (
Ellenbogen)

　　 Wait for the name, how can I forget it!

　　 There is one thing, I have slowly understood it. This is the party’s leadership-the party’s secondary patron, has been with me
I struggled for a few months-almost all in the hands of foreigners and I am enough to masturbate to know that the secret Jews are not
Germanic.

　　 From then on, I knew exactly who corrupted my nation.

　　 The more controversies between me and the Jews, the more clear the method of debate. In the beginning, they used each other’s stupidity,
If you can’t win, then pretend to be stupid; if you don’t win, then refuse to discuss or switch to
Other questions. Talking about the truth that everyone knows, and getting people’s consent, then list things that are by no means similar, so
, Yu returned to his original position and showed weakness and pretended not to know.

　　 So no matter where it is. Those who attacked these saints rarely fell into the mud.

　　If someone now criticizes a certain Jew before others come from the public, he will submit himself to submission; however,
If the denouncer thinks he has at least one victory, he will be surprised tomorrow; this is because the Jews have already
After completely forgetting what was said yesterday and repeating its shameless old saying, it seems that nothing will go through.

　　 He was furious and astonished, pretending that Shouquan had forgotten the old things, thinking that past debates had proved the truth he held.

　　 I was dumbfounded for it several times. I don’t know what makes people sigh the most.-Is it sharp teeth?

　　 is still cunning-therefore, I slowly hate the Jews.

　　 However, this is also advantageous. As soon as I became a propagandist in the Social Democratic Party, my sentiment of loving the country was also
It came out spontaneously.

　　Because of the guidance of the people’s daily economy, I searched for the origin of Marxism.

　　 What is the role of this doctrine?

　　In a separate case, I already understand it very well.

　　I see its success every day, just a little imagination can predict its results.

　　 But there is still another question, that is, do the advocates enjoy the effects in the new plan?

　　 Is it enough that he was sacrificed by fallacy without realizing it?

　　 Therefore I know the advocates of this doctrine. In order to study the principles of its movement.

　　 The speed at which I achieved my goal was out of my hopes. This is really due to my understanding of the Jewish question.
Get the people's considerable knowledge, but this kind of knowledge, at this time, there is still a deep study.

　　 Only this kind of knowledge can enable me to compare the reality of the Social Democratic Party with the theories of their party members. Therefore,
, I already know that the way the Jews lost their minds was to hide or embellish their opinions, so their true purpose is not
Can ask for it in words, because it is hidden in the words between the lines.

　　 At this time, I had the biggest change in my heart, that is, an indifferent citizen of the world, suddenly became
For a fanatical anti-Jewish man.

　　 When I was studying the influence of the Jewish nation and the long-term history of mankind.

　　 A tragic question suddenly appeared in my heart: that is the unfathomable destiny, I can't help but let this little man promise.
With the final victory?

　　 The Jewish doctrine of Marxism, abandoning the principles of nobility contained in the natural world, and replacing it with the number of the masses
It replaces the permanent and privileged relationship between power and power.

　　 Therefore, their doctrine denies the value of the individual among the masses and attacks the importance of nationality and race.
Deprive the meaning of human existence and culture.

　　If this doctrine becomes a cosmic law, then all the orders that mankind observes will inevitably go to extinction.
Already.

　　If this principle is implemented between the universe, then the universe must be in chaos, if it is implemented on the earth, then human beings must be the same
Perish.

　　 If the Jews rely on the power of Marx’s teachings to defeat the nations of the world, then this crown will become a human being
The funeral wreath is gone, and the earth will move in space without human beings, just as it was millions of years ago.

　　 The everlasting nature, whoever surpasses its commands (Ubertreung ihrer Gebieter) is bound to be stricter than before.
Severe punishment.

　　 Therefore, I have faith and be careful to follow the will of the creation; fighting against the Jews, this is what I am acting for God
Chapter 3: Political views gained in Vienna

　　In the old Danube Empire (Danube Monarchy), general political thought was more
(This is not the case for Prussia, Hamburg and the North Sea coast.) The thinking is more open and generous.

　　 What I call now "Austria," is part of the Habsbuag Empire;
Because there is the result of Germanic colonization, not only can it express its permanent power to create Austria in all aspects; but also
It can express its power to the people, and continue its inner cultural life for hundreds of years in this politically unstable country.
 

　　 The more the times move forward, the more the fate of Austria will become more complicated to the Germans and continue to survive, because the Germans
Man is really the life cell of the empire.

　　 "Austria, which is a mixture of various ethnic groups." In the end, it is unavoidable to collapse. This cannot be regarded as the old East Mark (
Ostmark's Germany has no political ability; because this is to use the power of 10 million people to support 50 million people forever
If the principle of the cohabitation of different races is not determined early, it cannot be maintained, and collapse is inevitable.

　　 A Germanic Austrian, he often lives in the territory of a great empire, and will never forget to be in this territory
All obligations.

　　 Although his sight is so narrow as to be limited to the territory of Austria, he can still see the border of the empire.

　　 Although he was unlucky and suffered the fate of being separated from the motherland, he still worked hard to take on this great cause and preserve it for Germany.
The rights that our ancestors gained from the East in the long struggle.

　　At present, we must know that although the strength has been dispersed, the success of the career is still possible. Because of excellent
People will always show sympathy for the common motherland, and the land of their motherland belongs entirely to them.

　　 The vision of the Germanic Austrians is actually wider than that of other races in the empire.

　　Their economic relationship includes almost all of the entire empire, all truly great companies, almost
Completely in its grasp.

　　 Most of the major technical experts and employees belong to them. The commercial power has not been captured by the Jews before
At that time, foreign trade was completely managed by them.

　　 Germanic Austrian supplementary teams can also join the German army, which can be stationed in Herzgovi
That (Herzegovina) is the same as in Vienna, Galicia (Caliia).

　　 The officer power is still Germanic, and so are high-ranking officers. Art and science belong entirely to Germanic people, except
In addition to the recent development of art (which may be a product of black people), there are only real artistic ideas and dissemination
Those who are all Germanic, and only Germanic.

　　 As for music, architecture, sculpture, and painting, Vienna’s Dual Minarchy (Dual Minarchy,
Doppelmonarchic), it seems to be an endless source, and there will never be a day of exhaustion.

　　Finally, all foreign policy responsibilities are entirely borne by the Germans; but there may be a small number of Hungarians.
The Yali people are included.

　　 But any attempt to maintain this empire. Because of the lack of important elements, it is completely reduced to nothing.
effect.

　　There is only one law in this racially complex Austrian empire that can overcome the trend of separation of nations, and that is
The state must be centralized, and its internal organization must be carried out accordingly.

　　 Owner in the highest position, when his mind is sober. I can see it here, but he forgets it right away.
; This may be due to the centralization policy that cannot be implemented because of the difficulties.

　　The unity of Germany, because its people are composed of a simple race, and often based on a common culture
Foundation, so the problem is only the reform of the traditional ills in politics.

　　 As for Austria, his situation is just the opposite.

　　Among other states, except Hungary, most of them don’t have great historical relics;
Wiped out.

　　 In short: most of them are bleak and dull.

　　 However, among the various states, the power of the people is growing day by day, at the border of the kingdom. "replubic nation" 

When 　　 began to take shape, it was especially difficult to detain; because of this kind of people and all ethnic groups in Austria.

　　 may be of similar ancestry, or the same ethnicity, his attraction is really greater than that of the Germanic Austrians.

　　 This kind of struggle was also defeated in Vienna.

　　 Since Budapest has developed into an important city, Vienna has encountered its rival for the first time.
cause. It is not important to unite the entire kingdom, but to consolidate a part of the kingdom.

　　 Soon, Praguc also imitated Budape’s precedent; so Lemberg, come
Baha (Leibach) and other cities also emerged.

　　 Since the death of Joseph II (Josrph II), the course of this career can be very
Understand and find it out.

　　 His speed is determined by many factors. Part of this factor lies in the empire itself; however,
There are other aspects, and that is the result of the empire’s external political status in various periods.

　　If you want to maintain this country’s struggle to the end, you can only resolutely exercise the consistent centralization system.
Can see the effect.

　　 However, the unity in form must first be expressed in principle by determining a unified national language; and to complete this
The specialized tools of the enterprise must be operated by the administrative organs; if there is no unified national language, then a unified country will
It can't last.

　　 The only way to produce a unified and lasting national concept is to use schools and education.

　　 However, this business cannot be successful in ten or twenty years. We must have a plan for hundreds of years, because this is
As with all colonial issues, a firm purpose is more important than a temporary effort.

　　 The Austrian Empire was not organized by a nation. The key to its maintenance is not in the common blood, but
In common force.

　　 Therefore, the incompetence of the leader may not necessarily cause the country’s slack, but instead can arouse the various races.
The instinct of the nation; if a certain will surpasses it. Then, this instinct is bound to be blocked and difficult to develop
of.

　　 This is something that the imperial family of Pushborg can't see clearly. Maybe this is his sad crime!

　　 Once in a certain period: the god of destiny once again raised the torch and came up to this land, but it’s a pity
, This torch is extinguished forever".

　　 Joseph II, who ruled the Germanic countries, was very worried that the royal family would settle on the extreme edge of the empire.
To make up for the shortcomings of his ancestors, it is bound to be trapped in a vortex of ethnic complexity.

　　 Joseph, a "good friend of mankind", used a superhuman energy to remedy the negligence of the front lining
, And want to work hard to restore the work that has been lost for hundreds of years within ten years.

　　 It is a pity that even the thought and ability of his successors are unable to shoulder this important responsibility.
 

　　 The revolution of 1848 was a class struggle no matter where it was, but in Austria, it was an inter-ethnic struggle.
The development of a new struggle.

　　 The Germans were either forgetful or unclear about this, so they went to the revolutionary movement instead.
As a result, he determined his own destiny.

　　 They have always evoked the spirit of world democratic politics. This spirit has taken the essential elements of his own existence
, Was destroyed in a short time.

　　Before the principle of establishing a common national language, a congress should be established first. This is to make the German
The reason for the termination of the power of the race. From then on, the country will be worried about subversion, and the result is that history is reduced—
Empires.

　　 I don't want to go into details about trivial matters, because this is not my purpose of writing this book.

　　 I just want to collect all kinds of facts for close consideration, because such facts are often the decline of the nation and the country.
The reason for the failure is very meaningful in modern times, and it also has a lot of implications for the principles of my political thinking.
help.

　　 The country is collapsing, and various systems have already revealed it to ordinary citizens. These can be seen even by non-sighted people
He got, his main point is the Congress, in Austria, or the Reichsrat, (Reichsrat), and this Congress,
It is made as a fundamental element based on strength.

　　 Obviously, this kind of organization is based on the British Parliament, which is the source of democratic politics.

　　 This system was completely transplanted from the United Kingdom to Vienna, and there were very few changes in the middle.

　　 The new life of the British bicameral system was once again seen in the Abgeordntenhaus (Abgeordntenhaus) and the House of Commons (
Herrenhaus). However, the two houses themselves are slightly different.

　　 When Barry (Barry) was building a parliament on the Thames (Wattters of Thames), he used the material
In the history of the "British World Epire, Britisches Weltreich",
To decorate the 1,200 niches, brackets, and pillars of this Chinese middle school, this magnificent aristocratic house and the House of Commons,
It has become a glorious building for the nation.

　　 This is the first difficulty in Vienna.

　　 Because when the Danish Hansen completed the last spire of his marble palace, he thought of using some ancient
The materials come to decorate it.

　　 So he decorated the portraits of Greco-Roman politicians and philosophers in this "Western Democratic Politics" theater
Style building.

　　 is also a symbol of sarcasm, that is, the four corners of the roof tend to be square, which completely expresses his internal separation.
of.

　　Like Austria’s history, it is glorious because of this architecture. Then all ethnic groups will recognize this kind of insult and challenge.
War, just like in the German Empire, did not dare to "dedicate to the Germanic people" until the outbreak of the world war (
To the GermanPeoble, demdeutschen Volke zu weihen) inscription, engraved in Berlin
Above the building of Paul Wallot's Imperial House.

　　The fate of the Germanic nation in Austria is determined entirely by the power of the Congress, until universal suffrage
And when the secret ballot system has not been explored. The Germans still have a majority in the parliament.

　　 But because of the unreliable behavior of the Social Democratic Party, the situation at that time became an unsound problem; because of this
The party often comes up to oppose the important issues of the interests of the Germanic nation, causing disagreements among party members of other nations in their party.
 

　　 At that time, the Social Democratic Party could no longer be a German political party.

　　 After the universal suffrage system is implemented, the Germanic superiority will no longer be significant in numbers.

　　 At this time, the rejection of Germanization in the middle school has reached the point where it cannot be stopped.

　　Because I was holding the determination of national self-existence, I was very dissatisfied with the representative system; because of this system, not only was it not
Can represent the Germanic nation, and often deceive and betray the Germanic nation.

　　This kind of crime, like other crimes, cannot be attributed to the event itself, but belongs to the Austrian nation.

　　 In the past, I thought that if the Germans could have a majority in the parliament, then the old country would continue to exist.
Then I have no room for objection.

　　 But, before long, the poor comedy unfolded before my eyes, which made me furious.

　　 Democracy in the West is the forefront of Marxism; if there is no democracy, then Marxism
It cannot be produced, so democracy is really the root of Marxism.

　　 The appearance of democracy-the parliamentary system-it is like "a monster in dirty soil and fire," it's a pity
It burns too fast.

　　 This is really lucky, I have the opportunity to live in Vienna, so I was able to investigate this issue.

　　 If I were in Germany at the time, I am afraid that this question could not be answered so easily.

　　 If I had learned of the absurdity of the so-called "Parliament" when I was in Berlin, then I might have gotten caught up in the extreme
He did not hesitate to blindly chat with those who are enemies of mankind and the times.

　　 This kind of thing is really impossible in Austria.

　　 Because it is not as easy as transferring from one error to another.

　　 If you say that Congress is worthless, then the Hapsburgs are even more worthless.

　　 The Congress decides the country’s coming, and the result is that the show is for profit, but it is by no means one responsible, and
No one can explain why.

　　A government has done a lot of wrong things and retired, but how can it be said that the government is responsible for changing the political party or
How can it be said that the disintegration of the National Assembly is responsible? Because most people are constantly changing, how can they be held accountable?
Isn’t the concept of responsibility closely related to personality?

　　 However, if the government’s various measures;
Can you prosecute the leaders?

　　 A politician who is a leader does not focus on having original ideas and plans in his career.

　　 Is it really important to make his proposal a technology that can be understood by a group of fools in order to obtain his final consent? politician
Isn’t the standard of the People’s Republic of China dedicated to lobbying instead of being decisively politically savvy about important behaviors and decisions?
? The progress of the world is not due to individual brain power but from the collective intelligence of many people. Is this something we can believe?
? Do we think that the future human culture does not come from this concept? On the contrary, personal brainpower is not compared to now
Is it more necessary in the past?

　　The principle that the Congress depends on the majority is denying the power of the individual, and substituting the majority of the parliamentarians in the meeting, this is really
The so-called upper class in aristocratic politics that violates the basic principles of aristocratic politics is not the upper class of our country’s corruption today.
Stream society.

　　 Those who read Jewish newspapers, if they don’t know to think about it, it’s not easy to set Yang to modern times.
The fraud of the Congress system.

　　 This is the main reason why ignorant people are flooded in politics.

　　Because of the true leader, he has escaped from this political activity that does not emphasize creation and production but uses bribes to win the majority sponsorship.
Then, political activities must compromise with the incompetent, and this is a favorite of the incompetent.

　　 The majority can never replace "people". This is something we must keep in mind. Most are often stupid and cowardly policies.
The defender of the confession, together-a hundred fools, can not be a wise man.

　　 Therefore, Jiwu's decision can never be obtained from a hundred cowards.

　　 As a result of democratic politics, important positions in the country have been changed rapidly, no matter what kind of thing it is
The situation is very unfavorable, and it is prone to very bad influence, because it is not only mediocre and incompetent stupidity
Yes, so got sacrificed. It is the true leader who is lucky enough to be in office, who will also suffer greater sacrifices.

　　 The result is that the leadership class feels more spiritually depressed; and the future of the country is no matter who
You can imagine it.

　　 Normally, only a small part of our concept of the word "public opinion" is based on our own experience and knowledge
, As for the main part, it is based on what we heard.

　　 And this kind of hearing. It is often the form of "enlightenment" to solemnly imply ours.

　　 The people's right vision can only perceive the result of the suffering of the soul and intelligence.

　　 In political "education" (here can be called "propaganda"), the most effective method is newspapers, because newspapers
It is engaged in the work of "enlightening civilization", which is not a kind of school for adults.

　　This kind of education is not in the hands of the government, but is controlled by despicable forces.

　　 I lived in Vienna when I was a teenager, and I had a great opportunity to get to know the organizers and planners of this key to popular education.
Plan people.

　　 I was surprised at first. In a short period of time, they competed to use deception to change the public’s true wishes and intentions.
See, and create a certain kind of public opinion for the evil forces in the country.

　　 However, a few days later, this fallacy has become an important domestic law. At the same time, all important issues are counterproductive.
But no one has ever analyzed it, or it is no longer remembered and noticed by the people.

　　 They often become celebrities in a few weeks, silently and odorlessly.

　　In the minds of ordinary people, and they have endless hope for them; they actually enjoy what a truly great man could not in his life
They are well-known, but they were still unknown before January. As for those in the political circles who are reliable and capable
Characters, they all died with all their devotion, or suffered from being corrupted by others’ names and turned into disdain for people’s mouths
Up.

　　 The methods of the Jews, often like mantras, can simultaneously destroy the reputation of good people in several ways. We must first study
Investigate this shameless method, so we can know that these human beings, all their harm in the newspaper, is
how was it.

　　 If we compare the democratic political parliament with the upright Germanic democracy, then we will immediately
It can be understood that human beings are unconscious and dangerous mistakes.

　　 The most obvious aspect of a democratic parliamentary system is that a certain number of people-even 500 people-are selected to decide everything.
event.

　　 So they are actually the government, even if a cabinet is elected from among them to handle everything for the country
This is nothing but a puppet cabinet.

　　In fact, this so-called government is not allowed to perform any political affairs without the approval of the parliament in advance.
of.

　　This kind of government cannot be held responsible for anything. This is because the final decision is not in the hands of the government, but in the discussion.
It’s in the hands of the majority party.

　　 The existence of the government is only to implement the will of the majority.

　　 Today, the purpose of a democratic parliament is not to form a meeting of good people, but to gather a group of despicable and useless people.
People; their intelligence is limited, so they are easy to drive, only in this way can they use today’s unsound political parties
political.

　　Moreover, the backstage boss who secretly manipulates the privileges can also live more safely, without having to take personal responsibility.

　　Because of a kind of disagreement, no matter how harmful it is to the country, it cannot be attributed to any traitor that everyone sees.
, And put the responsibility on the whole body.

　　In this way, in fact, it can be said that it doesn’t matter who is responsible; because the responsibility is that only one person can bear me, not me.
Attributed to the congress, who can only talk about it.

　　This kind of system, only that this can please them, or is beneficial for them to manipulate secretly, which can cause treacherous and open minds.
It would be welcomed until they fell. As for those responsible, it seems that it is really hateful.

　　This kind of democratic method is a tool for a certain race. The race is to promote its own purpose, so it
Now and in the future, you have to avoid the light and stay in the dark again.

　　Only Jews can value this system, because their filthyness and hypocrisy are really similar to him.

　　 The opposite of what was said before is the real Germanic democracy.

　　 The German leader was elected from above, and he is entirely responsible for all direct and indirect actions.
Any.

　　In this system, individual issues do not depend on a majority vote but entirely on one person, and he
Don't protect your own life and property for this dependent issue.

　　 It’s probably impossible to get someone who voluntarily commits himself to this dangerous cause. If someone wants to come
Against his decision, our only answer is "Thank God, the point of German democracy is to make that
Those who cause despicableness and cunning ugliness can’t try to survive and come to power to rule his compatriots, and those who are cowardly and useless
, Will also avoid it because of the great responsibility. "

　　 In recent years, under the rule of Congress, the Old Habsburg Empire has been weakened day by day.

　　The advantage of the Germanic people, not only because of the parliament, but also suffered a fall, so there is a system that allows nations to attack each other.
This system is attacking the Germanic nation, especially in France. Archduke
After Francis Ferdinand came to the throne, his power expanded, and an increase in the Czech Republic (Czechg
) The plan of the forces is originally the policy of their superiors.

　　 The future ruling figure of the Austro-Hungarian United Empire, he is responsible for the destruction of Germanic nationalization.
Below, try to encourage and pro-sponsor, at least: to protect.

　　 The pure Germanic countryside was turned into a dangerous place for language re-emphasis by the government's indirect method of slenderness.
Brought it.

　　In Lower Austria, this situation is progressing rapidly, and many Czechs actually
Vienna became their capital.

　　 This new metaphor of the Pushborg emperor (His family speaks Czech, and the Grand Duke’s wife is a Czech noblewoman
People, she grew up in an environment that hates the Germanic nation, and the prince married her, this time she succumbed).

　　 The main idea is to follow strict Catholicism, and gradually build a Slavic country in Central Europe, and the orthodox
Russia confronts.

　　Because this is the case, the pure political thought of religion is used, which is what the Habsburg royal family often has
thing.

　　 If the Germans come to observe, then this is really the most harmful thought.

　　From all aspects, the result is even more tragic.

　　 Because neither the Yuppsburg royal family nor the Catholic Church can get the benefits they hoped.

　　 The Habsburg royal family lost the throne of the throne, and Rome eventually lost a great power.

　　 The Austrian Emperor relied on religious power to achieve political goals, and he was able to arouse an unexpected spirit.

　　 This kind of spirit, no one at first regarded it as impossible.

　　 He tried his best to destroy the characteristics of the Germanic nation in the old empire, and this reaction.

　　 is actually the Austrian Sun-German movement.

　　 After the World War, the Hapburgs royal family has the final determination to gradually eradicate the dangerous Germanic
The nation-this is indeed the purpose of a neo-Slavic policy-so the whole country joined the revolution, determined to resist to the end,
This is an unprecedented precedent in modern German history.

　　 Such an enthusiastic person with patriotic thoughts has turned into a chaotic party.

　　—These chaotic parties, he does not betray the country itself, but is a kind of government system; because they believe in this
The system is bound to destroy the characteristics of the nation.

　　In recent Germanic history, one can distinguish loyalty to the dynasty and love for the motherland and nation,
This is the first time.

　　We must know that the highest purpose of human existence is not to maintain a country or a government, but
Preserving its national identity.

　　 The rights of mankind are really higher than the rights of the country.

　　 If a nation rises up and fights because of human rights,
The world, this is because of his bad destiny. If a person cannot fight for his own life, then,
The right heaven has already doomed his doomsday.

　　 The cowardly nation is not worthy of survival in this world.

　　 Anything about the interest and decline of the Sun-German movement, and the amazing advance of the Christian Socialist Party, this
These are the goals of my research, and they are of profound significance to me.

　　 I first said that I studied two people. These two people can be said to be the pioneers and leaders of these two sports. They are George Xue Nai.
Lei (Georg Von Schoerer) and Carl. Dr. Karl Lueger.

　　 These two people are above the ordinary members of Congress. Although they are in a nasty political circle, he
Our lives can still remain innocent and not corrupt.

　　 Although I sympathized with George Schneele of the Van Germanic school at first, I gradually fell in love with Christianity.
The leadership of the Socialist Party has been achieved.

　　 I should compare the abilities of the two of them. I think Xue’s heart is better for basic issues.
Liang, a firm thinker, he expected the outcome of Austria to be clearer and correct than anyone else.

　　 His warning to the Habsburg imperial family, if adopted, would be the tragedy of German and European confrontation
, Of course it will not happen.

　　 Xue has a clear understanding of this type of problem, but he has a fallacy in his views for the sake of mankind.
Insights.

　　 This is the advantage of Lu's.

　　 Lu's ability to know people is really rare, and his observations will not cause excessive losses.

　　 So he knows the real possibilities in life.

　　 Xue's understanding of this is very shallow. All Germanic movements, their thoughts, are theoretically
It’s correct, but it lacks power and understanding, so it’s impossible to use certain methods to spread its theoretical knowledge.
Make it easy for the people to understand, because the people’s understanding is extremely limited.

　　 For this reason, all knowledge has become a kind of prophetic wisdom, which is absolutely impossible to realize.

　　 The struggle of the bourgeoisie is very limited, but it is a pity that Xue does not quite understand this.

　　Because the bourgeoisie, because of its own economic status, everyone is afraid of suffering a loss, so they
One by one, his actions were considerably blocked.

　　 Xue’s lack of a deep understanding of the importance of the lower class of society, this is really his shallow knowledge of social problems
reason.

　　 In Lu's, this is the opposite of Xue's.

　　 He understands very well that the fighting power of the upper-class bourgeoisie is extremely weak. In a great new movement,
Definitely win.

　　 Therefore, he is ready to use all the existing power to contact the powerful existing organization so that he can exercise.

　　The old power of the public to get the most benefit.

　　 Lu’s new party was originally based on the collapse of the middle class, so he got a group of extremely difficult to move
Shaking party members, they can not only suffer great sacrifices, but also make resolute struggles.

　　 He is also good at linking up with the Belgian Catholic Church. His clever action finally won the praise of the young pastor.
help.

　　 So the Clerial Party was forced to withdraw from the political arena of competition, which was more informed
Yes, maybe he also came to join the new party, hoping to slowly regain his position.

　　 If we regard the above as the only advantage of Lu, this would be unfair to his judgment.

　　Because he not only has the expertise of a great military strategist, but also a truly striving reformer,
However, he can fully understand the possibilities of the matter and his own strength, so he can be limited.

　　 Lu's purpose is very practical.

　　 He wanted to seize the confidant of the kingdom-Vienna. After the needle, the remaining life will be invaded from this confidant and will be destroyed
The aging empire of Taiwan Province.

　　If the heart is healthy, then all parts of the body can naturally recover.

　　 This concept is correct in principle, but it is limited if it is to be seen in practice.

　　 These are indeed the weaknesses of Lu's. He was in line when he became mayor, and he could undoubtedly be immortal, but it was too late.
, He can no longer save this kingdom.

　　 His political enemy Xue Nailei sees this more clearly.

　　 I always say that most of the things that Lu's throws have been exceptionally successful; but what he hoped will be done.
It was all in vain.

　　 Xue is completely unable to implement his wishes, and unfortunately, everything he fears is mostly
This terrible state was realized one by one.

　　 Therefore, neither of them can achieve their lofty goals.

　　 Lu family could not save Austria, but Xue family also failed to prevent the decline of the Germanic nation.

　　We are not studying the reasons for the failure of these two parties. This can give us a lot of benefits, because as of today
The situation in Japan seems to be quite similar to many places at that time. It can be a wrong mirror for us, and we will no longer follow Lu Xue’s
It's gone.

　　 The bad luck of the Van Germanic movement is that it was at the beginning, not knowing that it gained the people's attachment and faith.
 

　　 This movement gradually tends to be bourgeois; it is still very dignified on the surface, but it is still very intense inside.
 

　　 When the Van Germanic movement first emerged, the status of the Germanic nation in Austria was already in desperation.
 

　　 Later, year after year, Congress increasingly acquiesced in the policy of gradually eliminating the Germanic nation.

　　 Now, we want to save, the only hope is to cancel the Congress, but the hope for this matter is very small.
 

　　 Lord Germanic activists have also joined the parliament, but most of them lost their positions and withdrew.

　　 When they speak in Congress, not only can they not become more important, but it is not important to compete with each other.

　　Because their speeches can only be used by the audience or a small group of people who accept their speech in the newspaper.
people.

　　 However, the largest venue that gives the audience the most direct contact is not the Chamber of Congress; it is the masses.
Yes; because when the masses are in the meeting, there are often thousands of people at the meeting, and they all come from listening to speeches.

　　 On the contrary, the people who attended the National Assembly Hall were only a few hundred people.

　　Moreover, among the hundreds of people in this district, most of them came to receive the salaries of the congressmen, not to listen to the people’s representatives.
High argument.

　　Speaking in this kind of venue is a waste of time and no accomplishment. The regime can be said to be playing the piano against the cows. This is a fact of the past.
 

　　Van Germanic parliamentarians, although they tried their best to make a hoarse speech, but the listeners were contemptuous, and they were still ineffective.

　　 This kind of speech was completely ignored in the newspapers, or it was drastically deleted. To its literary spirit-even its
Meaning-also led to dislocation, or competition completely disappeared.

　　 The purpose of this new movement is only to give the people the worst impression.

　　The important point of the speeches of the various members is not the speech itself; it is the impression that the speech makes on the readers.

　　 Now that the speech is split, the readers only get a piece of it, (their intention is this
), can only produce a meaningless impression.

　　 So, just look at the place where they always speak, but there are only a trivial 500 listeners, we’re just this
You can understand it at just a few points, but there is something worse to come!

　　 If the Van Germanic movement were able to recognize from the beginning that this kind of problem was not organizing a new party, it was a form of
Into a kind of outlook on life, then this can have the hope of victory.

　　Because only this new outlook on life can arouse the inner strength and carry out the struggle to the end.

　　To achieve this goal, only the best and braves can hope.

　　 If you work hard for a world system, the instructor cannot sacrifice everything heroically, then, in a short period of time
Inside, it is really impossible to think of a group of fighters who dare to die.

　　Because he is only fighting for his own sake, he will no longer have enough energy to care for the public.

　　 The Lord's Germanic movement and the assault of the Catholic Church. Obviously, it is because of not understanding the people’s psychology.
, This can be said to be the only explanation for the assault.

　　 The appointment of Czechs to various districts and Taiwan Provinces as pastors is one of the ways to actually turn Austria into a Slavic country.
Kind.

　　 This method is to appoint Czechs as pastors to preach in purely Germanic parishes.

　　Because these priests regard the interests of the Czech nation above the interests of education, they will become a destructive German
The core of Mann’s nationalization movement.

　　 Under this situation, the German priest was completely lost. Not only can they not serve the Germans
The family struggles, and can't resist the opponent's attack.

　　In this way, the Germanic nation, because of the abuse of this teaching power, and the weak resistance, so slowly
Succumbed.

　　 Xue Nilei works, he never has a beginning or an end, they practice and struggle with the church, this is because they believe that there is only this
This kind of struggle can save the Germanic nation.

　　 The movement of "Leaving the Roman Church" seems to be the most difficult, but the most powerful way to capture. The result is bound to be
The enemy’s fortress was destroyed and destroyed.

　　 If it succeeds, then the unfortunate religious division of the Germanic nation can be resolved forever.

　　 Such a victory is of great benefit to the internal strength of the empire and the Germanic nation, but it is a pity that he
The propositions and inferences about this struggle are mostly incorrect.

　　 There is no doubt that for all the problems affecting the Germanic nation, the Germanic Catholic shepherd, their resistance
The resistance is really not as good as the non-German priests, especially the Czechs.

　　 Czech pastors treat their own people subjectively and treat the church objectively; Germanic pastoral enthusiasm
For the church, it is really subjective, and the treatment of the Germanic nation is counter-objective.

　　 Now try to compare the attitude of the official class of our country towards a national revival movement with that of any other nationality.
The attitude of the officials in such a situation. Let’s compare, how can we imagine any official in the world,
Can the phrase "national authority" be used to reject the demands of the nation, as happened in our country five thousand years ago? And this matter
Is it still regarded as extremely natural and extremely laborious?

　　 When I studied the Van Germanic movement and the struggle with Rome, I came to the following two conclusions: This
This kind of movement, because it does not understand the meaning of social problems, has lost the power of the people to fight.

　　 This is the first point: because of joining the Congress, it has lost the power to advance and is affected by the weakness of the Congress.
This is the second point.

　　 Their struggle against the church resulted in the loss of the trust of most of the lower and middle
Most of them can be called outstanding national elements.

　　 The result of the "cultural struggle" (Kulturkampf) of the Austrians is actually almost zero.

　　 If the political party does not want to destroy the morality of the nation, it should not have any relationship with religious issues.

　　Religion should not be mixed into the conspiracy of political parties.

　　If the elders in the church use religious systems and doctrines to harm their own nation, then they
They cannot gain people’s believers; they should not use their spears to attack their shields.

　　 A political leader, if he has the merits of a reformer, he should never interfere with the people’s doctrine and organization.
Otherwise, he shouldn’t be a policymaker; instead, he should know a religious reformer.

　　Others, no matter what the attitude, must be able to cause catastrophe, especially in Germany.

　　 Protestantismm (Protestantismm) can promote the patriotism of Germany’s inner and pure nation, or maintain
The survival, language, and freedom of the Germanic nation, because these are the fundamental points of Protestantism;
To teach the nation out of his hands, this attempt is extremely hateful in Protestantism, because his attitude towards Jews is poor.
Not much becomes a question of letter.

　　 This question, the new dogma still holds a skeptical attitude towards it;-if this question cannot be obtained then
, All the attempts to revive Germania are mostly meaningless or have no hope of success.

　　 Our two doctrines now take an attitude towards the Jewish question, which is not related to the importance of the nation and the need of religion.
Are they not compatible? Try to share the attitude of Jewish priests on all issues concerning Jews with our country
Of the pastors (most pastors of these two denominations are now suspended!) By comparing the attitudes of the two, you can understand
Up.

　　 This is a phenomenon that often occurs when we support abstract ideas.

　　 All the concepts of "national authority", "democracy, pacifism, "international solidarity" and so on, we often
Turn it into a fixed and pure theory. In the future, if the Lord encounters an important event of the nation, he can send it all from this.
A point of view to give judgment.

　　 Everywhere where the Van Germanic movement failed, the Christian Socialist Party understood it very well, so
The disposal was all properly and planned.

　　 The Christian Socialist Party has a deep understanding of the importance of the people, so it clearly declared its social
Sex in order to attract a part of the public.

　　 Since he really accepted the lower middle class and the working class, he has to be faithful and sacrificial party members.
 

　　 In order to avoid conflicts with any religious groups, this party is supported by powerful churches.
 

　　 This party deeply understands the value of large-scale propaganda, and it specifically influences the instincts of the general public psychologically.
 

　　 This party was bent on rescuing the Austrian country and it failed. The reason for his failure was the wrong method. (This is
In two ways), and the confusion of the goal.

　　 Its anti-Semitism relies on religious concepts, not race-based.

　　The origin of this error is similar to the cause of the second error.

　　 Its founder thought that the Shiguo Christian Socialist Party wanted to rescue Austria, so it should not be based on the principle of race
; Because the falsehood is like this, then, under any circumstances, Austria will disintegrate the whole country. The leader of this party,
It is believed that Vienna under the status quo of Austria must try its best to avoid the trend of division. Hundreds should support the people who promote the unification.
point.

　　 At that time, a large number of Czechs invaded Vienna, so they were mostly committed to all racial issues.
In addition to the tolerance, it is impossible to prevent these elements from opposing the Germanic nation.

　　 It was supposed to rescue Austria, so such elements are indispensable.

　　 Therefore, the leader of the party tried his best to reject Manchester’s liberal thought in order to contact Vienna
Most of the small Czech businessmen in the middle; they want to rely on this to add a slogan to the anti-Semitism rooted in religion, and
I want to use this to resolve all ethnic disputes in Austria.

　　 This is very obvious. Fights based on religion will not feel much pain for the Jews.
 

　　If the situation is helpless, as long as a drop of holy water can save them from their distress, and
And they can preserve their Judaism.

　　Because of understanding this incomplete method, the anti-Jewish proposition of the Christian Socialist Party has lost its truth.
value.

　　 This kind of false anti-Semitism is worse than nothing, so it is better to have nothing than nothing, because the people
The nose has been held by someone!

　　If Dr. Ruger was born in Germany, he could be one of our nation’s great men; unfortunately, he
Both man and his career took place in incompetent Austria.

　　 When he died, the faint fire fighting in the Balkans had slowly expanded day by day.
The earth took his life because he couldn't bear to make him witness something he was confident could prevent.

　　 Regarding the purpose and theories of the Germanic national revival, all Germanic movements are very correct, but in his research
The method chosen is inappropriate.

　　This kind of movement has his inherent nationality, but because of the lack of sociality, he cannot get
It is a pity to get the sympathy of the people!

　　 His anti-Semitism is based on the importance of racial issues, not based on religious principles.

　　 Also, he opposes a certain doctrine, which is completely false in fact and strategy.

　　 The Christian Socialist Party’s goal for the movement to revive the Germanic nation is too vague, but in his
If one party is blind, then his method is really right.

　　Because the party can understand the importance of social issues, but the method of fighting against the Jews is inevitably
It is wrong, and it also ignores the importance of the national concept.

　　 I was extremely dissatisfied and disappointed at the time, and I knew the emptiness of Austria, the more I felt that I wanted to save Austria
Hopeless.

　　 I deeply feel that Austria represents the misfortune of the German nation.

　　 I am deeply convinced that Austria hinders the truly great German nation and sponsors non-German nations and all other nations.
thing.

　　 So I hate the ethnicity of Viena. I hate Czechs, Poles, Hungarians, Rocha even more
The Ruthenians, Serbs, and Droats gathered in one place.
Those who hate and hate are the parasitic Jews that can be encountered everywhere.

　　 I have no intention of caring for Austria, but I will never forget the German Empire.

　　 So I saw the Austrian Empire and its collapse, which was the beginning of the salvation of the German nation.

　　 Therefore, I want to return to my emotions and have a passion for Germany, because I have longed for selfishly in my childhood.
Now, I hope that I will become a famous architect in the future, no matter what my fate is, I will work exclusively for the nation.

　　 I hope I can enjoy my due fortune and participate in national affairs with him. My most ardent volunteer will finally
Will be realized there, this is my favorite hometown.

　　Can unite with the motherland-the German Empire-and become a country.

　　 In my life, Vienna has given me the hardest and most complete training; until now, I can
I was able to fully understand the value of training in the past few years.

　　 I have elaborated on this period and it is because in this period I have understood the problems related to partyism.
Many reasons.

　　 When our party was founded, it was very small, and in just five years (this was written in 1924), it became a
A great people's movement.

　　 If fate does not give me this kind of experience, my political views have been confirmed. Basics, then I won’t know
What attitude did Tao use to deal with the Jewish Democratic Party, Marxism, and all other social issues included?
Chapter 4: In Munich

　　 In the spring of 1912, I went to Munich (Munchen).

　　 This is really a German city that is different from Vienna in every way!

　　 When I think of the difficult situation of various ethnic groups in Vienna, I feel very unhappy.

　　Munich’s language is almost the same as mine, reminding me of being in Lower Bavili in my youth.
Bavaria).

　　 There is a sense of intimacy with me in all aspects.

　　 My relationship with this place is far deeper than the rest of the world; because this place and my development
Because of the inseparable relationship.

　　The only supporters of the alliance are the Habsburg emperors and Germans in Austria.

　　Because the approval of the imperial stomach of the Habsburgs is out of compulsive planning; the approval of the Germans is gullible and unclear
White politics's sake.

　　 Those who approve because of their credulity, because they want to use the Triple Alliance to seek Germanism
The strength and stability of the empire; those who approve of politics because they don’t understand politics are just because their imaginations do not match the facts, they
What they did is really nothing more than the Germanic empire, attached to the death of a country; so the result will surely cause them to fall
Into the abyss and unable to extricate themselves; moreover, the alliance can make Austria slowly break away from the Germanic nationality.

　　Because the Habsburg Emperor believed that after the alliance with the empire, he would not be interfered by the empire-unfortunately, this
The point is really so fierce and right-so it is not difficult for them to gradually eliminate the Germanic influence in the country, and there will be no danger.
risk. And there is no need to worry about any protests made by the German government. This is because the German government’s point of view has always been
Known for their “objective” attitude, they can often rent alliances to suppress opposition when dealing with the Germans in Austria.
Yes, regardless of any firm appeal, where the Slavs are particularly shameful ancestral protection, they can use that alliance
The eloquence was stopped. If we have a precise study of history and Germanic national psychology, then,
No one can believe that Italy and Austria will stand on the same front and fight together.

　　 If no matter which government can dare to compete with the soldiers of the Hapsburg faction that it hates (unless it is an enemy of Austria)
,) Then, Italy must be immediately angry and will erupt like a volcano.

　　 When I was in Vienna, I often saw Italy's passionate and infinite hostility towards Austria.

　　 For hundreds of years, the crimes committed by the Habsburg royal family against the freedom and independence of Italy are serious. Italy is
Never forget it.

　　 Even if you want to forget, it’s impossible, not to mention the Italian people or government, most of them have no intention of forgetting
Too!

　　 Therefore, for Italy's interests, there are only two ways to deal with Austria, which is alliance or war.

　　The Italians chose the former very calmly, so they can naturally prepare for the latter.

　　Germany’s alliance policy is both meaningless and dangerous. Moreover, the relationship between Austria and Russia is increasingly using force.
To solve the problem.

　　 For what on earth did you form an alliance? This is just to take advantage of the opportunity for the country to have an independent contract to protect
It only hinders the future of the country.

　　The so-called future of the country is nothing but a question of the continued existence of the Germanic nation.

　　 The population of Germany increases by nearly 900 per year. ○ ○ ○ people come to support the difficulties of these new populations, naturally
It is increasing every year.

　　 Unless we take precautions and find a way to prevent it, then the result will surely be catastrophic.
 

　　To find jobs and bread for these breeding populations; nothing more than two paths, namely, opening up territory and adopting colonial trade
Easy policy.

　　 There will be various considerations, researches, suggestions and debates on these two paths.

　　 However, it was overturned by various reasons, and finally decided to take the second path.

　　 Comparing these two roads, of course, the first one is more sound, because of the acquisition of new territories and accommodating surplus people
Mouth, this benefit is unlimited, especially in the future.

　　The only hope of territorial policy now is limited to Europe and cannot be expanded to Cameroon (Cameroons)


　　 where to go.

　　 The two borders and territories of our country’s eastern border are all based on struggle, so we are striving for survival.
The determination to fight, that has to be thanked.

　　 The reason why we have survived to the present is also completely dependent on this determination to succeed.

　　This solution is correct and reasonable.

　　There is another reason: many countries in Europe now look like inverted pyramids, because they are in Europe
The foundation of the country is really top-heavy compared to the various burdens they placed on the colonies’ foreign trade. It’s ridiculous.
to! We can say that the top is in Europe, but in the end it is scattered all over the world, and the United States of America is based on the foundation of the economy.
The situation where the top is in contact with all parts of the earth is obviously the opposite.

　　 Therefore, the internal strength of the United States is very strong, while the European colonies are mostly weak in comparison.
coming.

　　The example of this period is that the United Kingdom cannot be used as a counter-evidence, because we often forget the Anglo-Cityson world.
The authenticity in the relationship with the British Empire.

　　 Britain can’t compare with other European countries only because its language and culture are the same as that of the United States of America.
Mention.

　　 Therefore, if Germany wants to implement a sound territorial policy, its only hope is to obtain new territory in its European headquarters.
If the colony is not suitable for colonizing large numbers of Europeans, then the colony is useless.

　　 In the nineteenth century, it was impossible to obtain colonies by peaceful means.

　　 Therefore, in order to realize this kind of colonial policy, there is only one way out of hard work; but this kind of struggle,
It is more appropriate to seek territories on the mainland and adjacent to the country, rather than land outside Europe.

　　 If this policy is to be realized, the only possible alliance in Europe is the United Kingdom.

　　 If we Germany come to carry out aggression, only Britain can be our backing.

　　We have the right to carry out actions, which is no less inferior to our ancestors.

　　 Our country’s pacifists enjoy the products of the Orient without hesitation. I don’t know the tools to open up the Orient in the first place.
Is it a sword?

　　 We should cherish any major sacrifices to gain the favor of Britain.

　　The so-called sacrifice is to give up colonial and maritime hegemony, and to avoid being hindered by our commercial competition.
British industry.

　　 There was a period in the United Kingdom, I hope we can have this kind of expression, because the base country he also understands that Germany is a small population
A solution must be found for the proliferation of the country’s growth, and this solution must be solved in Europe with the help of the United Kingdom, or
There is no need for the help of the United Kingdom to find a solution elsewhere on your own.

　　 At the end of the nineteenth century, Jiguo seeks goodwill with Germany, and it is because of this kind of feeling.

　　 However, most of the Germans thought that this action was for the use of Britain in vain, so they all felt uneasy, as if they had formed an alliance.
No need to use reciprocity as a basis!

　　 In fact, based on the principle of reciprocity, Germany's negotiations with Britain can proceed smoothly.

　　We must know that the foreign policy of the base country is very clever. If we don’t give him benefits, he will never
Can benefit me.

　　 Let’s just imagine, if Germany could use agile foreign policy to complete the German alliance, like 1904
Ben’s behavior, then, his influence on Germany, it is difficult for us to estimate.

　　 Maybe the world war will not break out.

　　 However, this policy has not been adopted.

　　 However, it is still possible to develop industry and world trade, and expand sea power and colonies.

　　 If you want to implement the policy of European land expansion, then you have to unite Britain and oppose Russia; otherwise, you want to do colonial and world trade
Policy, the only way is to unite Russia and oppose Britain.

　　 In this situation, Germany should immediately decide to break diplomatic relations with Austria.

　　 Hundreds of them adopt the policy of "peacefully conquering the world economically", which will inevitably reduce the force they have exercised before
Policy, destroyed forever.

　　 When many unexpected threats come from England from time to time, they may be inexplicable!

　　 In the end, although they are determined to build a fleet, their goal is not to attack Kyrgyzstan, but to protect the world.
World peace” and “economic peace conquer the world. ".

　　 Therefore, they not only have restrictions on the number of warships, but also the tonnage and armaments of each ship.
The lowest limit, to show that their ultimate goal is still to "peace."

　　 The element of "conquering the world in economic peace" is the only main reason in the national policy, which is really
The most stupid thing, however, it is really foolish for them to cite Britain to prove the possibility of implementing this principle.
It's available.

　　The harm left by the theory of history taught by university professors in our country cannot be remedied. This is sufficient proof
Reading the history of the Ming Dynasty can only be understood by only a hundred people. It is really called "eating without transforming". This situation is everywhere. This kind of theory,
Even in the UK, it has already been refuted, and this is something they cannot help but admit.

　　 However, in countries in the world, they are prepared to use force as economic backing, and after conquering, they will
The real messenger of cool means to maintain this behavior is the United Kingdom.

　　 The British policy has always been that he did not use political power to obtain economic benefits, so he immediately used economic benefits
Is it becoming a political power? Therefore, if the base country is too cowardly, they dare not act in order to protect their economic policies.
Blood, that is completely wrong.

　　 The fact that Britain does not have a national army is not enough to prove it; because the main points of a country are not in the form of military strength.
Making good use of the will and determination of all forces in a country.

　　 Britain always has the armaments he needs.

　　 During the war, Britain used all the necessary sharp weapons to achieve victory.

　　 When military service is useful, the United Kingdom responds with military service; however, if not encountered, there must be a major sacrifice
When the victory can be won, the United Kingdom will not hesitate to use the best elements of his country to challenge; his
The determination and perseverance, as well as his persevering combat behavior, are ubiquitous.

　　In Germany, schools, publications, and comic newspapers are often used for publicity, propagating the life of the erroneous British
And its empire, so that the Germans developed a concept, and fell into a mentality of self-deception, competing for the Germans to treat the British
Contempt, this concept of Liao’s mistakes deeply penetrated into the hearts of the people, so in the minds of the Germans, the Lin family recognized that the people of the base country are
A cunning and cowardly businessman.

　　 (Know that a huge Britain can never be maintained by scheming and despicable means, but I
Those Professor Xiao Tou from China, they never understood this.

　　 This kind of wrong conception is corrected by a few people and warned. However, those who warn these few people don’t
If it is given to Moshe, it is suppressed.

　　 When two pairs were in Flanders (Flanders), we armed comrades were in a state of panic, I
The purpose is still very clear.

　　 It took less than a few days. The Chinese immediately realized that the Scots did not agree with Guoyang’s comic newspapers and reports.
The form of writing.

　　 I want this time, so I pay attention to publicity and its most effective way.

　　The propaganda group naturally has a convenient place for the absurd ideas mentioned above. They can cite examples—
-Regardless of the error of this example-to justify the "economic conquest of the world".

　　As long as the people of the base country can succeed, we Germans will certainly succeed; because of our honesty——
It's not as unfaithful as the British-and it can be considered our specialty.

　　 What we hope is to bring the sincerity of the Germans to the attachment of small countries and the trust of large countries.

　　 The value of the three-nation alliance, psychologically, it is not important, because the alliance focuses more on the status quo
The maintenance, then, his holding power will be weaker.

　　 On the other hand, if the forces of the allied countries hope to achieve their definite and true expansion goals, then,
This power becomes stronger; because of this alliance, his power lies not in defense but in offense.

　　 People everywhere, everyone can understand this clearly, but only the so-called "experts,"

　　 can't even know.

　　 Ludendorff (Ludendorff), who was a colonel of the staff headquarters at the time, will in his memo in 1912,
Pointed out this weakness.

　　Naturally, "politicians" refuse to recognize his value and importance in this matter.

　　 In 1914, the war in Europe broke out indirectly from Austria. The Hapsburg imperial family was therefore not allowed to
It’s a great fortune for Germany not to join the war. If Europe is the first to attack Germany, then Germany will be isolated.
Helpless.

　　The relationship between Germany and Austria has deprived Germany of the best hope the alliance can give.

　　 Not only that, but the situation in Germany and Russia, and even Germany and Italy, has become increasingly tense.

　　 Rome used the emotions to protect Germany, which has become a common phenomenon, but the anti-Austrian emotions go deep
From time to time, the hearts of Italians from various countries will burst out.

　　 In a small group that I often assemble, I clearly stated that I am convinced that we and a Chinese family that will be destroyed to sign the unfortunate
The covenant, this covenant, if not cancelled in time, is bound to cause Germany to collapse.

　　 Unless Germany manages to release it in time.

　　 When the war was very fierce and popular, it was impossible to be reasonable and ideological.
Those who consider facts with a cool head are inevitably excited by the situation, but I hold this belief as strong as a stone and dare not
There is a moment of casualness.

　　 is when I was in the previous knot, whenever I encountered a discussion about this issue, I would definitely express my opinion.

　　 I mean, for the Germanic ethnographies, the cancellation of the covenant can be done as soon as possible.
If the number of enemies is reduced, the Hapsburg dynasty will be sacrificed, and Germany will not be lost either.

　　 Because millions of athletes wearing helmets, their purpose is to save the Germanic nation, not to maintain
An aging dynasty.

　　 For a period before the European war, at least some of the soldiers were concerned about the ongoing alliance policy.
Whether it is proper or not, there have been some doubts.

　　 And the conservatives in Germany often warn the authorities not to trust the alliance, but finally they defy their ears.
Ignore this warning.

　　 They believe that they have entered the road to conquer the world, success is not limited, and without any responsibility
Ho's sacrifice.

　　 At this time, the so-called "experts" are just like the rat traps in Hameln, inducing
The innocent nation is on the verge of extinction, and the group of "non-experts" have turned a blind eye to nothing.

　　 Germany’s expertise and rapid progress in industry, as well as Germany’s victory in trade, gradually
One thing that makes them forget is that they don't understand the situation. Therefore, the country is strong and can achieve this.

　　 But many people, on the contrary, declared their beliefs, thinking that the foundation of the country is an economic organization, so the country
His life really depends on the development of industry and commerce.

　　It must be managed by the laws of economics, so that commerce becomes the basis for the survival of the country, and the social industry
Karma becomes the most sound and natural of all conditions.

　　 However, the country has nothing to do with any specific economic concept or economic development. The country does not
It is a representative group of an industry, but a social organization that seeks to achieve various economic targets in a certain period of time;
Think of it as a social organization with commonality and emotions, so as to enhance and maintain this special society, in order to realize God as a human being.
The destiny specified by the class.

　　 This is the meaning and purpose of a country.

　　From the perspective of space, the Jewish state has no boundaries, but his racial concept is limited, so
This nation; often forms its own country within a certain country.

　　 This country uses “religious” beliefs as its advertised belief, and thus gains the Aryan’s understanding of all religious beliefs.
Forgiveness, this is really the most cunning method invented. The purpose of Seymour’s religion is to preserve Jewish
A doctrine of race.

　　 Therefore, all knowledge related to the religion, regardless of social, political, or economic, is almost completely included
In this doctrine?

　　Whenever the political power in Germany progresses, business also improves; on the contrary, if the businessmen only know
Profit is a graph. When morality is declining, then the country must fall into a mountain collapse again, and commerce will decline accordingly.
 

　　 If we ask ourselves, where are the forces that build and maintain the country?

　　 To put it bluntly, it means sacrificing the courage and determination of the individual to work for the benefit of the real society.

　　This kind of virtue obviously has nothing to do with the economy; because the world is willing to sacrifice for ideals, but
Those who are willing to sacrifice for the industry have never heard of it.

　　 When the English people realize the ideal of a kind of national struggle, they can best show the extraordinary place of their soul.
square.

　　 For example, we only know that we fight every day for bread, but the British fight for "freedom".

　　 The freedom they are talking about is not the freedom that the British people know, but the freedom of those weak people.

　　 These, most Germans thought it was shameful, so they gave birth to anger. From this, it can be proved that in the war
What happened to the so-called "political strategy" in Germany before?

　　The Germans in our country are ignorant of the power that makes the people willing to sacrifice for struggle.

　　 In 1914, the Germans were indeed confident that they were fighting for the ideals of the people, so they could always be invincible.
Land; until they later understood that the war was fighting for bread, they also succumbed to themselves.
Stop the war.

　　 However, our smart "politicians," they will also express their surprise at the change in people's sentiments.

　　Before the war, they thought they could manipulate the world by peaceful means of the colonial policy of trade, or further
Conquering the world, this belief has become a dream; this can be seen in the reality of a country’s so-called construction and maintenance
The virtues of humanity, as well as all other obvious willpower and determination to build a career, have been lost.

　　 The direct result of the laws of nature is this world war and the various shadows that followed it.
ring.

　　 For the first time now, I have addressed the above-mentioned issues, as far as I am concerned about the policies and economics of the German Union in 1912-14.
To comment on the vicious solution and position of the policy, I feel that the solution of this mystery is done by a force.
This force is what I knew from another point of view when I was in Vienna, and it was Marxist.
Theory and worldview, and the effectiveness of its organization.

　　 I began to think about it at this time, that is, what kind of method can I use to overcome this kind of world flow?
Illness.

　　I once studied the purpose, struggle and success of Bismarck's special legislation.

　　This kind of research has gradually strengthened my self-confidence. Therefore, I don’t want to have any opinions on this issue.
Changed.

　　 However, I will deeply study the relationship between Marxist theory and Judaism.

　　 1913-14 years, I used to publicize this belief to various groups-some of them are now
Still loyal to the National Socialit movement!

　　 I am convinced that in order for the future development of the Germanic nation, Marx must be eliminated.

　　 The decline within the German nation did not begin now, but because of the culprit who endangered their survival, they
It seems that I don’t know the source of the disease in humans.

　　 Although they will also treat this kind of disease. But because the disease is often mistaken for the source of the disease.

　　Because the Germans can’t understand or don’t want to understand this matter, they fight against Marxism again.
Becoming a quack has thrown drugs indiscriminately.
Chapter 5: World War

　　 When I was in the youth and vigorous age, what worries me the most, unpleasant, is that in this age of decline, I am affected by the people
The only people who worshipped were merchants and state officials.

　　 The political tide seems to have calmed down, and the future of the world seems to have entered: international peaceful competition.

　　 In other words: It is to use fraudulent means with each other, and avoid all drastic methods.

　　 Governments of various countries have begun to pay attention to companies that are squeezing each other and taking customers and contracts from each other. They do not hesitate to use it.
Everyone tried every means to make use of each other, so a tumultuous voice filled the world.

　　 This kind of development not only continues without end, but also seems to have received unanimous approval from the world.
It transforms the world into a huge warehouse in one fell swoop.

　　 In the corridors of this grand warehouse, all the cunning profiteers and the most cowardly employees have their knowledge
The portrait is permanent.

　　 Why didn’t I be born a hundred years earlier?

Wasn't 　　 born before and after the War of Liberation?

　　Because people at the time, in addition to being engaged in "business", there are some considerable values ​​at all.

　　Be France. When the news of the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand reached Munich (I was in the house at the time, for
The plot of this incident is only vaguely heard.) At first, I thought that this assassination might be German.
What the students did.

　　Because they hate Prince Oku’s intentional favoritism towards the Slavs, they want to eradicate the abuse of the Germans.

　　 What was the result of the incident? Then I can immediately imagine that it would aggravate the abuse of Germans.
Already.

　　 At that time, it was possible to openly explain the reason for this abuse to the whole world, and ask the whole world for forgiveness!

　　 Soon, I learned the name of the murderer, he is a Serbian, I am revenge for this unpredictable fate
, I felt a little bit terrified but terrified.

　　 The best friend of the Slavs has been a victim under the guns of the crazy Slavs.

　　 The world still has many responsibilities for the form and content of the ultimatum issued by the Vienna government.
Difficult, this is owed to the public.

　　Any country in the world is in the same situation, and there is no way to act like this.

　　 In the southern border of Austria, there is an unshakable enemy who always challenged the Austrian royal family.
When the time comes, the Austrian Empire must be overthrown and turned quickly.

　　 In the minds of ordinary people, for fear of Emperor Kao's death, this tragic disaster must be realized. This is reasonable.

　　 And the Austrian Empire may not have the ability to effectively resist.

　　 The safety of Austria in recent years. Completely to the old emperor Francis. On the body of Francis Joseph,
Therefore, from the eyes of the people, the death of the old emperor is tantamount to the destruction of the country's self-knowledge.

　　 Most people in the world thought that this war might be avoided, so they attributed the disaster to the Vienna government.
It is really not a fair argument.

　　Because this war is inevitable in the end, it was postponed for one or two years at most.

　　 What they hate is the foreign policy of Germany and Austria. They often want to delay the inevitable day.
Until the last juncture, when he was forced and had to fight, the timing at that time was already unfavorable.

　　 If we want to try our best to maintain peace in Taiwan Province, then when the war is together, the timing will be even worse. This is what we can do.
Assertive.

　　 It has been many years. The German Social Democratic Party has used the most despicable means to instigate a war between Germany and Russia.
Central Party: Because of religion, the country’s plans are mostly not transferred to the Austro-Hungarian Empire.

　　 Now, the big mistake has been made, so the result has to be endured.

　　 The advent of catastrophe is inevitable, and it is inevitable.

　　 The mistake of the German government is that it only knows to maintain world peace, so it misses the opportunity to go to war, and then
Contained by the alliance that maintains world peace, it eventually became a victim of the World Allies.

　　 Although this is called the World Entente in name, it actually opposes the maintenance of world peace and is determined to cause a world war.

　　 The 1914 war did not force the people to participate. It was indeed what the whole country wanted, and the people were anxious.
Anxiously to bring the rest of the world to an end.

　　 This is Germany’s more than two million adults and young people, so they are willing to join the army, willing to fight fiercely, and
Under the national flag, willing to sprinkle the last drop of blood to defend his motherland.

　　 This war for freedom broke out. The scale is unprecedented.

　　I heard the news of the assassination in Munich just ten days ago, and two thoughts immediately occurred in our minds: One is the war
