IntroductionTragedy is a precious word. We use it to confer dignity and value onviolence, catastrophe, agony,
 and bereavement. ‘Tragedy’ claims thatthis death is exceptional. Yet these supposedly special fatalities 
arein our ears and eyes every day, on the roads, in the skies, out there inforeign lands and right here at home, 
the latest bad news. Is theword now bandied around so freely that it has lost all meaning? 
Doour conceptions of tragedy have any real connection with those ofthe ancient Greeks, with whom it 
originated two and half thousandyears ago as the description of a particular kind of drama? How didtragedy 
migrate from the Greeks to Shakespeare and Racine, fromdrama to other art forms, from fiction to real 
events? What needshas the idea of tragedy served, and to what use and abuse has itbeen put?This Very 
Short Introduction addresses these questions through aseries of nine topics. Chapter 1 considers the distance 
between ourmodern application of the words ‘tragic’ and ‘tragedy’ and theirorigins in 5th-century 
Athens, including some changing ideas aboutfate and accident, the importance of stories and plots, and 
thesignificance of the disagreement between Plato and Aristotle overtragedy’s claims to truth and its effects 
on those who witness it. InChapter 2 we will look at the possibility that tragedy as a living artform belongs
to the past, to ages when artists and audiences drewon shared religious beliefs, including beliefs about the 
meaning of pain and punishment. Chapter 3 suggests that tragedy is an artparticularly concerned with our 
need to lay the past to rest and thedangers of failing to do so; hence tragedy’s interest in ghosts 
andrevenge, in mourning and memory, in the ambivalent modelsprovided by ‘heroes’. In 
Chapter 4 we turn our attention to thequestions of blame, responsibility, and guilt, to Aristotle’s 
notion of‘error’ and to the process of scapegoating. Chapter 5 describes someof the big ideas about 
tragedy that theorists, including theinfluential figures of Hegel and Nietzsche, have developed over thelast
 two hundred years, and the resistance or outright hostility suchideas have provoked by their contempt for 
the reality of pain.Chapter 6 affords some relief by raising the question of comedy intragedy, especially the
 role of scornful laughter, both for characterswithin the fiction and for audiences and readers outside it. 
InChapter 7 we consider the importance to tragedy of verbaleloquence and its frustration; the reticence, 
stammering, andsilence to which human beings may be reduced and out of whichthey can seek to break. 
Chapter 8 focuses on the different kinds oftime that tragedies bring together: the experience of waiting
‘between times’ and the moment of decisive action when what’sdone is done, conjunctions of past and 
future in the here and nowthat the visual arts are well placed to capture. In conclusion,Chapter 9 turns to the
 problem of endings in tragedy, and thecomplex desires for justice and truth that they excite in those 
whowitness it.Who needs tragedy? Can we imagine a world without tragedy?Would we want to? These are
 some of the tough questions that theart of tragedy puts into words and images, so tellingly – at least inthe
hands of its greatest exponents – that it seems we can’t dowithout it.